Rdocumentation
powered by

Search all packages and functions
spData (version 2.3.4)

Mercer and Hall wheat yield data

Description

     Mercer and Hall wheat yield data, based on version in Cressie
     (1993), p. 455.

Usage

     wheat

Format

     The format of the object generated by running ‘data(wheat)’ is a
     three column data frame made available by Hongfei Li. The example
     section shows how to convert this to the object used in
     demonstrating the ‘aple’ function, and is a formal class
     'SpatialPolygonsDataFrame' [package "sp"] with 5 slots; the data
     slot is a data frame with 500 observations on the following 6
     variables.

        * lat: local coordinates northings ordered north to south

        * yield: Mercer and Hall wheat yield data

        * r: rows south to north; levels in distance units of plot
          centres

        * c: columns west to east; levels in distance units of plot
          centres

        * lon: local coordinates eastings

        * lat1: local coordinates northings ordered south to north

Note:

     The value of 4.03 was changed to 4.33 (wheat[71,]) 13 January
     2014; thanks to Sandy Burden; cross-checked with
     http://www.itc.nl/personal/rossiter/teach/R/mhw.csv, which agrees.

Source

     Cressie, N. A. C. (1993) Statistics for Spatial Data. Wiley, New
     York, p. 455.

References

     Mercer, W. B. and Hall, A. D. (1911) The experimental error of
     field trials. Journal of Agricultural Science 4, 107-132.


Variables detected from installed object

lon: numeric ; missing=0 ; examples=2.51, 5.02, 7.53

lat: numeric ; missing=0 ; examples=3.3

yield: numeric ; missing=0 ; examples=3.63, 4.15, 4.06

Examples
Run this code

     if (requireNamespace("sp", quietly = TRUE)) {
     library(sp)
     data(wheat)
     wheat$lat1 <- 69 - wheat$lat
     wheat$r <- factor(wheat$lat1)
     wheat$c <- factor(wheat$lon)
     wheat_sp <- wheat
     coordinates(wheat_sp) <- c("lon", "lat1")
     wheat_spg <- wheat_sp

     gridded(wheat_spg) <- TRUE
     wheat_spl <- as(wheat_spg, "SpatialPolygons")
     df <- as(wheat_spg, "data.frame")
     row.names(df) <- sapply(slot(wheat_spl, "polygons"),
                             function(x) slot(x, "ID"))
     wheat <- SpatialPolygonsDataFrame(wheat_spl, data=df)
     }

     if (requireNamespace("sf", quietly = TRUE)) {
       library(sf)
       wheat <- st_read(system.file("shapes/wheat.gpkg", package="spData"))
       plot(wheat)
     }

