Rdocumentation
powered by

Search all packages and functions
ade4 (version 1.7.24)

cnc2003: Frequenting movie theaters in France in 2003

Frequenting movie theaters in France in 2003

Description

     ‘cnc2003’ is a data frame with 94 rows (94 departments from
     continental Metropolitan France)and 12 variables.

Usage

     data(cnc2003)

Format

     This data frame contains the following variables:

     popu is the population department in million inhabitants.

     entr is the number of movie theater visitors in million.

     rece is the takings from ticket offices.

     sean is the number of proposed shows in thousands.

     comm is the number of equipped communes in movie theaters (units).

     etab is the number of active movie theaters (units).

     salle is the number of active screens.

     faut is the number of proposed seats.

     artes is the number of movie theaters offering "Art and Essay"
          movies.

     multi is the number of active multiplexes.

     depart is the name of the department.

     reg is the administrative region of the department.

Source

     National Center of Cinematography (CNC), september 2003

See Also

     This dataset is compatible with ‘elec88’ and ‘presid2002’


Variables detected from installed object

popu: numeric ; missing=0 ; examples=0.515, 0.536, 0.345

entr: numeric ; missing=0 ; examples=0.769, 0.731, 0.499

rece: numeric ; missing=0 ; examples=4.065, 3.942, 2.789

sean: integer ; missing=0 ; examples=26, 28, 17

comm: integer ; missing=0 ; examples=16, 14, 7

etab: integer ; missing=0 ; examples=20, 15, 11

salle: integer ; missing=0 ; examples=35, 38, 28

faut: integer ; missing=0 ; examples=6288, 7403, 3956

artes: integer ; missing=0 ; examples=12, 8, 4

multi: integer ; missing=0 ; examples=0

depart: character ; missing=0 ; examples=Ain, Aisne, Allier

reg: factor ; missing=0 ; examples=Rhone-Alpes, Picardie, Auvergne

Examples
Run this code

     data(cnc2003)
     sco.quant(cnc2003$popu, cnc2003[,2:10], abline = TRUE, csub = 3)

