Rdocumentation
powered by

Search all packages and functions
spatstat.data (version 3.1.9)

heather: Diggle's Heather Data

Diggle's Heather Data

Description

     The spatial mosaic of vegetation of the heather plant (_Calluna
     vulgaris_) recorded in a 10 by 20 metre sampling plot in Sweden.

Usage

     data(heather)

Format

     A list with three entries, representing the same data at different
     spatial resolutions:

       ‘coarse’  original heather data, 100 by 200 pixels
       ‘medium’  current  heather data, 256 by 512 pixels
       ‘fine’    finest resolution data, 778 by 1570 pixels

     Each of these entries is an object of class ‘"owin"’ containing a
     binary pixel mask. All spatial coordinates are given in metres.

Notes on data:

     These data record the spatial mosaic of vegetation of the heather
     plant (_Calluna vulgaris_) in a 10 by 20 metre sampling plot near
     Jadraas, Sweden.  They were recorded and first analysed by
     Diggle(1981).

     The dataset ‘heather’ contains three different versions of the
     data that have been analysed by different writers over the
     decades.

     coarse: Data as originally digitised by Diggle in 1983 at 100 by
          200 pixels resolution (i.e. 10 pixels = 1 metre).

          These data were entered by hand in the form of a run-length
          encoding (original file no longer available) and translated
          by a program into a 100 by 200 pixel binary image.

          There are known to be some errors in the image which arise
          from errors in counting the run-length so that occasionally
          there will be an unexpected 'spike' on one single column.

     fine: A fine scale digitisation of the original map, prepared by
          CWI (Centre for Computer Science, Amsterdam, Netherlands) in
          1994.

          The original hand-drawn map was scanned by Adrian Baddeley
          <mailto:Adrian.Baddeley@curtin.edu.au>, and processed by
          Chris Jonker, Henk Heijmans and Adrian Baddeley
          <mailto:Adrian.Baddeley@curtin.edu.au> to yield a clean
          binary image of 778 by 1570 pixels resolution.

     medium: The version of the heather data currently supplied on
          Professor Diggle's website. This is a 256 by 512 pixel image.
          The method used to create this image is not stated.

History of analysis of data:

     The data were recorded, presented and analysed by Diggle (1983).
     He proposed a Boolean model consisting of discs of random size
     with centres generated by of a Poisson point process.

     Renshaw and Ford (1983) reported that spectral analysis of the
     data suggested the presence of strong row and column effects.
     However, this may have been attributable to errors in the
     run-length encoding of the original data.

     Hall (1985) and Hall (1988, pp 301-318) took a bootstrap approach.

     Ripley (1988, pp. 121-122, 131-135] used opening and closing
     functions to argue that a Boolean model of discs is inappropriate.

     Cressie (1991, pp. 763-770) tried a more general Boolean model.

Source

     Peter Diggle

References

     Cressie, N.A.C. (1991) _Statistics for Spatial Data_.  John Wiley
     and Sons, New York.

     Diggle, P.J. (1981) Binary mosaics and the spatial pattern of
     heather.  _Biometrics_ *37*, 531-539.

     Hall, P. (1985) Resampling a coverage pattern.  _Stochastic
     Processes and their Applications_ *20* 231-246.

     Hall, P. (1988) _An introduction to the theory of coverage
     processes_.  John Wiley and Sons, New York.

     Renshaw, E. and Ford, E.D. (1983) The interpretation of process
     from pattern using two-dimensional spectral analysis: Methods and
     problems of interpretation. _Applied Statistics_ *32* 51-63.

     Ripley, B.D. (1988) _Statistical Inference for Spatial Processes_.
     Cambridge University Press.

